# Dharani (Real Estate tokenization)

# 

> Part 1 : Real Estate Tokenization

### Token

A token is a unit of account representing a specific amount of goods (i.e. computers), services
(i.e. cloud storage), or assets (i.e. property), (all together referred to as “Assets”), and is
exchangeable (tradable) between those who wish to access such Assets and those who own
the Assets. Thus, a token has a value that is linked to the perceived value of the Assets, it is
directly linked and the amount (proportion) of the value it represents

### Security/Asset tokenization

The tokenization of asset refers to the process of issuing a blockchain token (specifically, a security token) that digitally represents a real tradable asset. These tokens are created through a type of initial coin offering (ICO)  sometimes referred to as a security token offering (STO) to distinguish it from the other type of ICOs, which can produce different tokens such as equity, utility, or payment tokens.

An STO can be used to create a digital representation of a security token of an underlying asset, meaning that a security token could represent a share in a company, ownership of a piece of real estate, or partition in an investment fund. These securities can be traded in exchanges

### How does tokenization work ?

- Real or digital assets move to the blockchain. meaning that smart contracts are written representing ownership and ownership right under what conditions and how those are enforceable.
- tokens are created to represent the means and amount of ownership or participation stake in these Assets.
- subject to certain rules, tokens can be bought and sold on trading exchanges. Tokens enable people to gain ownership, invest and trade Assets and financial instruments previously unavailable to them.

## Benfits

- **Liquidity**
    - By tokenizing assets, especially private securities or typical illiquid assets such as fine art, these tokens can be traded on a secondary market of the issuer's choice. This access to be a broader base of traders increases the liquidity.
- **More accessible to funding**
    - Private companies wishing to expand their business but lacking the required capital to go public may address a larger community of investors through tokenization.
    - Access to investment previously not available
- **Faster and cheaper transactions**
    - The transactions of the tokens are completed with smart contracts, This automation can reduce the administrative burden involving in buying and selling, with fewer intermediaries needed, leading not only faster deal execution, but also lower transaction fees, as compared to traditional solutions.
- **Easing Corporate Governance Requirements**

## Challenges

- If the tokenization and the broader token economy are to take off, A big problem revolves around regulatory alignment, especially considering the fact that blockchain-based platforms are defacto decentralized.
- Security regulations are typically technology agnostic, meaning that security tokens, depending on their exact features, can fall under the full scope of relevant security regulations, which may vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.

# Conclusion

- Tokenization allows the creation of a new financial system, one that is more democratic, more efficient, and vaster than anything we have seen.
- Tokenization is already a reality. New players are rapidly building their own infrastructure, while the traditional market infrastructure is also showing signs of paving the way for mainstream adoption.
- Obstacle stands in the way of widespread adoption, principally in form of regulation. But these obstacles can be overcome with the support of actors from all levels.
