# 2. Real Estate Tokenization

> Part 2: Real Estate Tokenization

## Introduction

Property tokenization is one of the most promising use cases of blockchain technology. With a total asset value of $228 trillion globally, real estate is a more valuable asset class than bonds and stocks combined.

The momentum in real estate is part of a broader trend, we are moving to a digital economy where financial and physical assets will increasingly have digital representations of their unique value. The [World Economic Forum](http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_GAC15_Technological_Tipping_Points_report_2015.pdf) predicts that by 2025, blockchains will store 10% of all global GDP. Countries and individual states are already making the necessary regulatory and legislative changes to make this prediction a reality.

Before the tokenization of real estate, only accredited and institutional investors had access to the most exciting projects. But now asset owners and developers can market their projects to retail investors as well as institutions.

## How does real estate tokenization work?

Real estate tokenization included three main phases

* Issuance of property
* Technology specifications
* Token creation & distribution

### Issuance of property

The issuance of property depends on the various key elements, such as asset type, shareholder types, and the applicable regulations, including jurisdiction.

The Issuer need to decide about

**Asset:** Determine property to tokenize

**Legal Structure:**

Tokenization of real estate requires a legal wrapper around the individual property to securitize and create an investment vehicle. the most common structures are :

* **Special Purpose Vehicle \(SPV\)** -  title and deed of the physical property assigned to an SPV structure. Tokens represent shared of the SPV. This type of structure is typically limited to accredited investors or qualified institutional buyers.
* **Real estate fund** - a private equity fund the invests in a portfolio of properties. Tokens represent ownership shares or units in the fund. Tokenized fund interest typically available only investors or qualified institutional buyers.
* **Real Estate Investment Trust \(REIT\)** -  a REIT operator can create digitized shares in a REIT to take advantage of the technology benefits. Token holders have the same rights to operating income from the REIT that traditional investors today. REITs are costly to operate, however, they are advantagous in that they are available to retail investors.

**Shareholder rights** - based on the legal structure, determine if the investor has the right to governance or dividend of property. we able to offer multiple tokens that represent the multiple investment classes.

**Investor types** - the investor type depends on the jurisdiction in which a group of investors will reside.

**Regulations** - the regulations will be based on the location of the property, the size of the capital raise, type of investors along with their location. It’s important to note that execution regulation may also determine the tax treatment of the tokens as well as solicitation restrictions.

### Technology specifications

Once the Issuance of property is setup, we now able to decide about technology decisions. In this we decide about what type of technology we are using to implement the setup along with security consideration.

**Blockchain** - Blockchain able to provide Distributed Ledger Technology \(DLT\) along with Immutable data. We need to choose the blockchain platform to create a token, along with access control of data.

**KYC / AML Vendor** - determine a KYC / AML vendor that can integrate with the primary issuance platform and the digitized security infrastructure.

**Primary / Secondary Marketplace** - Provide the exchange platform to trade these securities for investors to access liquidity.

### Token creation & distribution

Once done with technology specifications, the next step is to launch token and distribute to investors. which follows

**Acceptable Funds** - to receive investment funds, you able to use various methods like accepting traditional fiat currencies, cryptocurrencies or stable coins. you have the option to accept these payment methods easily.

**Token Creation** - the process of creation tokens, which is similar to ICO, that handled by the technology team with initial token supply.

**KYC / AML** - To verify the Investor, will go through an investor onboarding and KYC/ AML process. During this time they may also need to link up their digital wallet using the platform.

**Token Distribution:** after the investor KYC/ AML process, will directly send tokens to investor accounts or list the token in the primary issuance platform. Once investors make purchases, they will receive securities, and in real-time you can manage the raise and view the cap table.

## Benefits

**Liquidity** - property tokenization does not only allow a wider range of investors to access the asset class but will eventually also enable a liquid secondary market. Once the issuer has listed a token on a digital exchange for secondary trading, investors can easily resell their assets. Along with that issuers can automate many middlemen functions and bring liquidity to an asset class that has been starved of it.

**Cost-effective** - the transactions of the tokens are automated with smart contracts. This can reduce the administrative burden involving buying and selling, with fewer intermediaries needed, leading not only faster deal execution, but also lower transaction fees, as compared to traditional solutions.

**Governance** - the type of tokens that hold by the investor, they may able to participate in on-chain governance activities and easily manged their funds on-chain.

## Conclusion

By tokenization of real estate which enable buy or sell of fractional property, along faster and cheaper execution fees. This access to be a broader base of traders increases the liquidity.

What’s being said for real estate is equally valid for other illiquid asset classes – like arts or private equity. But considering the size of the real estate market, that’s where tokenization can make a huge difference for investors, developers, and fund managers.

