# Technical Overview

In this technical documentation, we are presenting how we implementing the Real Estate tokenization \(Issuer platform\) using the Cosmos blockchain framework. Regarding off-chain to on-chain data, legal structure and regulations will be coved in future documents.

> Note: this is very basic mvp implementation of Title issuance platform.

**How does it works ?**

Imagine you want to tokenize a property of 200,000 sq ft worth $60 million.

Now, if you tokenize the property, you can divide each square feet into shares, i.e., you can divide the property into 2,00,000 shares, each share will represent NFT, each valued $3000 \( each square feet\) and can be sold for multiplied profits.

This also allows the fragmentation of property ownership and expands the opportunity for small-time investors to enter the market. Each square feet of value, $3000, can be owned by various investors.

Here we are developing Issuance platform, which able to

* Issuer able add his property to blockchain.
* Issuer wish to sell how much he owned with a each sq ft value.
* Market place which contains auctions.
* Buyer is able to buy the fractional property from the issuer by paying the specified amount.

In this process, we are using NFTs to represent the fractional ownership of Title with additional properties like geo-location, area, etc...

## NFT Specification

Non-fungible tokens are the digital representation of scarce assets. NFTs are unique in nature, with varying properties that can be distinguished from each other.

The new era of NFTs was first introduced with the ERC-721 standard in late 2017. ERC-721 variates significantly from the ERC-20 standard as it extends the common interface for tokens by additional functions to ensure that tokens based on it are distinctly non-fungible and thus unique. These distinct properties of NFTs enable a variety of new use cases. It particularly improves the tokenization of individual assets which is not feasible with fungible tokens.

Using NFTs to represent both digital goods such as virtual gaming assets, digital artwork, and software licenses as well as physical assets such as luxury goods and cars. NFTs are seen as key to unlock the market for collectibles which has an estimated global market size of USD 200 billion.

In this, we are using NFTs for representing a fraction of Title in real estate. The NFT structure as follows :

```go
type Property struct {
    ID          string         `json:"id"`
    Area        uint64         `json:"area"`
    Owner       sdk.AccAddress `json:"owner"`
    Location    string         `json:"location"`
    Type        string         `json:"type"`
    RefProperty string         `json:"ref_property"`
    PerSqCost   sdk.Coin       `json:"per_sq_cost"`
}
```

`ID` : represents specific property.

`Area` : represents sq ft area owned by owner.

`Owner` : address of propety owner.

`Location`: geo-location of property

`Type`: represents auction of {Own, Sell}.

`RefProperty`: previous property id reference.

`PerSqCost`: cost per sq ft. If it's type: Sell.

## Messages

Messages are responsible for the state change in blockchain, they define the actions that your application can make. Think of all the scenarios where a user would be able to update the state of the application in any way. These should be boiled down into basic interactions, similar to CRUD \(Create, Read, Update, Delete\).

### MsgAddProperty

```go
var _ sdk.Msg = (*MsgAddProperty)(nil)

type MsgAddProperty struct {
    From     sdk.AccAddress `json:"from"`
    Area     uint64         `json:"area"`
    Location string         `json:"location"`
}
```

Message add property will create the blockchain record of the issuer property. With location, and the number of square feet that he owned.

`From:` address of the issuer.

`Area`: which represents how many sq ft owned by issuer.

`Location`: geo-location data.

The Msg interface requires some other methods to be set, like validating the content of the struct, and confirming the msg was signed and submitted by the From \(issuer\).

By this transaction, we are creating a new property NFT, with user-specified details, and store in a ledger.

### MsgSellProperty

```go
type MsgSellProperty struct {
    From      sdk.AccAddress   `json:"from"`
    PropID    types.PropertyID `json:"prop_id"`
    Area      uint64           `json:"area"`
    PerSqCost sdk.Coin         `json:"per_sq_cost"`
}
```

Message sell property, will describe how much property, issuer wants to sell, this will be listed in the market place with defined per sq ft cost along with the number of sq ft issuer wish to sell.

`From`: issuer address who want to sell his property

`PropID`: property id, represents unique property.

`Area`: represent how many sq ft, he want to sell fractional/full.

`PerSqCost`: per sq ft cost.

By this message, the issuer who already added property in the blockchain, now able to sell his fractional/full property with per sq ft cost. And those properties will be listed in the market place to buy.

### MsgBuyProperty

```go
type MsgBuyProperty struct {
    From   sdk.AccAddress   `json:"from"`
    PropID types.PropertyID `json:"prop_id"`
    Area   uint64           `json:"area"`
}
```

Message buy property, the buyer is able to buy the fractional/full property that is listed in the market place with defined per sq ft cost by the issuer.

`From`: buyer address who want to buy property.

`PropID`: property id, represents unique property.

`Area`: represent how many sq ft, he want to buy fractional/full.

By this message buyer able to get the fractional/full property, by paying the per sq ft amount that defined by the issuer and the deducted money send to the issuer account.

### Keeper

Keeper is responsible for exposing methods for a store that managed by the module, It contains references to basic functions like `Set`, `Get` and `Delete` `Update`.

```go
type Keeper struct {
    CoinKeeper bank.Keeper
    storeKey   sdk.StoreKey
    cdc        *codec.Codec
}
```

Our keeper stores all our data for our module. Sometimes a module will import the keeper of another module. This will allow the state to be shared and modified across modules.

### Handler

The handler is something, where all actions are applied or deny by a Message. In order to message to reach keeper, it has to go through a Handler.

```go
func NewHandler(k Keeper) sdk.Handler {
    return func(ctx sdk.Context, msg sdk.Msg) (*sdk.Result, error) {
        ctx = ctx.WithEventManager(sdk.NewEventManager())

        switch msg := msg.(type) {
        case types.MsgAddProperty:
            return handlerAddProperty(ctx, k, msg)
        case types.MsgSellProperty:
            return handlerSellProperty(ctx, k, msg)
        case types.MsgBuyProperty:
            return handlerBuyProperty(ctx, k, msg)
        default:
            errMsg := fmt.Sprintf("unrecognized %s message type: %T", ModuleName, msg)
            return nil, sdkerrors.Wrap(sdkerrors.ErrUnknownRequest, errMsg)
        }
    }
}
```

In our handler we have different types of actions, those are responsible for changing/denying state actions that performed by the user.

### Querier

Querier is used to querying the state of our application. querier able to access the keeper to query the data from the store.

```go
func NewQuerier(k Keeper) sdk.Querier {
    return func(ctx sdk.Context, path []string, req abci.RequestQuery) ([]byte, error) {
        switch path[0] {
        case types.QueryProperty:
            return queryProperty(ctx, path[1:], k)
        case types.QueryAllProperties:
            return queryAllProperties(ctx, k)
        case types.QueryPropertyByAddr:
            return queryPropertyByAddress(ctx, path[1:], k)
        default:
            return nil, sdkerrors.Wrap(sdkerrors.ErrUnknownRequest, "unknown dharani query endpoint")
        }
    }
}
```

In our modules,we are using querier to get the list of properties from the store.

### REST & CLI

In order to interact with the server/app, we implemented the Command Line Interface \(CLI\) & REST. These two are used to interact with our app.

```go
func GetTxCmd(cdc *codec.Codec) *cobra.Command {
    cmd := &cobra.Command{
        Use:   "property",
        Short: "property transactions subcommands",
    }

    cmd.AddCommand(flags.PostCommands(
        CommandAddProperty(cdc),
        CommandSellProperty(cdc),
        CommandBuyProperty(cdc))...)

    return cmd
}
```

```go
func RegisterRoutes(cliCtx context.CLIContext, r *mux.Router) {
    r.HandleFunc("/faucet", faucetHandler(cliCtx)).Methods("POST")

    r.HandleFunc("/property", getPropertyHandlerFunc(cliCtx)).Methods("GET")
    r.HandleFunc("/property/add", addPropertyHandlerFunc(cliCtx)).Methods("POST")
    r.HandleFunc("/property/sell", sellPropertyHandlerFunc(cliCtx)).Methods("POST")
    r.HandleFunc("/property/buy", buyPropertyHandlerFunc(cliCtx)).Methods("POST")
}
```

These endpoints and cli are used to interact with the blockchain server, which running locally or remotely based on the remote address. These endpoints and cli are responsible for altering the state changes in the blockchain.

\`

